Performance Endpoint for Linux 32-bit on ARM
File README
Version 7.30

Copyright (C) 2005-2012 Ixia.
All rights reserved.

Ixia
26601 W. Agoura Road
Calabasas, CA 91302 U.S.A.
Web: www.ixiacom.com
Phone: +1 818 871-1800 or + 1 877 FOR IXIA
Fax: +1 818 871 1805

General information:
Email: info@ixiacom.com

Technical support:
Email: support@ixiacom.com


Thanks!
  We appreciate your interest in our software.  We keep seeking
  ways to improve it; we welcome your feedback and suggestions.
  We continue to enhance and expand our Web site -- come and
  visit us.

  The latest versions of the endpoints are always available for
  free at http://www.ixiacom.com/support/endpoint_library/

  Note that the Ixia Performance Endpoints have not been tested with 
  NetIQ applications and may not function properly with NetIQ applications.


Linux kernel

  We've tested with packages that implement Linux kernel 2.4.20 and 2.6.9.
  We have not tested this version of the Performance Endpoint with
  earlier versions of the Linux kernel.


Only TCP and UDP/RTP support

  The Performance Endpoint for Linux 32-bit on ARM uses the
  Sockets interface to the TCP/IP support shipped with Linux.
  IPX, SPX, or other network protocols are not supported
  in this version. IPv6 is not supported.


Here's what you need to run the endpoint:

  - A device with an ARM compatible CPU
    and running Linux as the operating system.
  - 16 MBytes of free RAM.
  - Linux kernel 2.4.20 or newer
  - Glibc 2.3.3 or newer


No log files are created

  In order to save RAM space, the Performance Endpoint for Linux 32-bit
  on ARM does not generate the endpoint.log and assert.err files.
  Still, all errors are sent to the output device.


TAR-Based Endpoint Installation for Linux 32-bit on ARM
-------------------------------------------------------------------

  Remember that all commands and parameters discussed here are
  case-sensitive.  Use the combination of uppercase and lowercase
  letters as shown below (for all the file names, "M" represents
  the major version and "m" represents the minor version).

  You can copy the Performance Endpoint from CD-ROM or download it
  from IXIA website. The following commands assume you have the file
  from IXIA website, which is named pelinux_arm_Mm.tar and copied it
  to the ARM device.

  On a Linux machine, decompress the .tar archive:

  tar xvf pelinux_arm_Mm.tar
 
  The Performance Endpoint files are decompressed in temp directory:
    - the Performance Endpoint executable.
    - the README file.
    - the IXIA EULA.
    - the directory cmpfiles. This directory contains files with
      the .cmp file extension. These are files containing data of
      different types, such as typical text or binary data.  These
      files are used by the endpoint as data on SEND commands.  The
      different data types can be used to vary the data compression
      performance of your network hardware and software.
    - the ini file.
    - a file that holds the text messages that will be displayed by 
      the Performance Endpoint and by the IxChariot Console.

  The procedure of installing these files on the ARM-based device
  depends on the specific device.


*IxChariot is a registered trademark of Ixia.  United States Patent 
Numbers 5,838,919, 5,881,237, 5,937,165, and 6,061,725. 
Other patents pending.  
