2017.04.12 - GNU nano 2.8.1 "Ellert" fixes build failures on MacOS and
		on musl, fixes scrolling problems in softwrap mode when
		double-width characters on row boundaries are involved,
		shows double-width characters as ">" and "<" when split
		across two rows, moves the cursor more predictably (at
		the cost of sometimes putting it on the second "half"
		of a character), avoids creating lines that consist of
		only blanks when using autoindent, makes ^Home and ^End
		go to the start and end of the file (on terminals that
		support those keystrokes), places the cursor better when
		linting, lets the linter ask only once whether to open
		an included file, and adds bindings for ^Up and ^Down
		in the file browser.  Don't sit on your hands.

2017.03.31 - GNU nano 2.8.0 "Axat" makes it easier to move around in
		softwrapped lines: the Up and Down keys now step from
		visual row to visual row instead of jumping between
		logical lines, and the Home and End keys now move to
		the start and end of a row, and only when already
		there, then to the start and end of the logical line.
		Furthermore, the screen can now scroll per row instead
		of always per logical line.  On an entirely different
		front: nano now makes use of gnulib, to make it build
		on more platforms.  In short: there were many internal
		changes, not many user-visible ones (apart from the
		new softwrap navigation).  The conversion to gnulib
		was done by Mike Frysinger, the softwrap overhaul by
		David Ramsey.


2017.02.23 - GNU nano 2.7.5 "Nijntje" can properly search and replace
		the \B and \b regex anchors, correctly repaints things
		when multiline regexes with identical start and end are
		involved, fixes a crash with zero-length regex matches,
		does replacements at the edges of a marked region right,
		no longer hides double-width characters at the head of
		softwrapped rows, displays at most three warnings at
		startup, and documents the ability to read a file from
		standard input.  Come tickle my ears.

2017.01.10 - GNU nano 2.7.4 "Red dress" undoes deletions in an orderly
		manner again (bug was introduced in previous version),
		sets the preferred x position for vertical movements
		more consistently, avoids some scrolling problems in
		softwrap mode, installs the Info manual also when your
		system lacks 'makeinfo', and corrects the behavior of
		the beginning-of-word anchor (\<) in regex searches.

2016.12.28 - GNU nano 2.7.3 "Ontbijtkoek" wipes away a handful of bugs:
		your editor is now able to handle filenames that contain
		newlines, avoids a brief flash of color when switching
		between buffers that are governed by different syntaxes,
		makes the Shift+Ctrl+Arrow keys select text again on a
		Linux console, is more resistant against malformations
		in the positionlog file, and does not crash when ^C is
		typed on systems where it produces the code KEY_CANCEL.
		Oh, and it no longer mistakenly warns about editing an
		unlocked file just after saving a new one.  That's it.
		Tastes great with thick butter.

2016.12.12 - GNU nano 2.7.2 "Shemesh! Shemesh!" brings another feature:
		the ability to complete with one keystroke (^] by default)
		a fragment of a word to a full word existing elsewhere in
		the current buffer.  Besides, this release fixes two bugs
		related to using line numbers in softwrap mode, allows to
		use the PageUp and PageDown keys together with Shift on
		VTE-based terminals, stops the help lines from flickering
		during interactive replacing, makes a 'set fill' override
		an earlier 'set nowrap', properly restores the selected
		region after an external spell check, and improves a few
		other tidbits.  If you should find any more bugs, please
		run 'man nano | grep bugs' and report them there.

2016.10.29 - GNU nano 2.7.1 "Leuven" adds an often-asked-for feature: the
		ability to display line numbers beside the text.  This can
		be activated with -l or --linenumbers on the command line,
		or with 'set linenumbers' in your nanorc, or toggled with
		M-#.  The coloring of these numbers can be chosen via the
		option 'set numbercolor'.  This release furthermore fixes
		some bugs with scrolling in softwrap mode, is more strict
		in the parsing of key rebindings, and marks a new buffer
		as modified when the output of a command (^R ^X) has been
		read into it.  Come and check it out!

2016.09.01 - GNU nano 2.7.0 "Suni" adds a new feature: allowing text to be
		selected by holding Shift together with the cursor keys.
		Besides that, nano now works also when run in very tiny
		terminals (down to one line, one column), and improves
		the handling of the prompt in cramped spaces.  Not much,
		but it's time to get it out there.


2016.08.10 - nano 2.6.3 "Marika" makes the Ctrl+Arrow keys work also on
		a Linux virtual console, takes as verbatim only the very
		first keystroke after M-V, removes any lock files that it
		holds when dying, doesn't abort when a word contains digits
		(when using the default speller), fixes a small sorting bug
		in the file browser, makes searching case-insensitively in
		a UTF-8 locale a little faster, and doesn't enter invalid
		bytes when holding down both Alt keys.  Santé!

2016.07.28 - nano 2.6.2 "Le vent nous portera" adds two new features: the
		keystrokes Ctrl+Up and Ctrl+Down for jumping between blocks
		of text, and the option 'wordchars' for specifying which
		characters (beside alphanumeric ones) should be considered
		word-forming.  Further, it provides feedback during Unicode
		input (M-V followed by a six-digit hexadecimal number which
		must start with 0 or 10), avoids a crash when resizing the
		window during Verbatim input, doesn't drop a keystroke after
		having been suspended, and replaces the	beginning-of-line
		anchor (^) just once per line.  There are also several tiny
		improvements in screen rendering and key handling.  Come get
		your hair tousled!

2016.06.27 - nano 2.6.1 "Stampede" is chiefly a translation update, but also
		adds one little feature (the ability to use negative numbers
		with Go To Line: -1 meaning the first line from the bottom),
		includes syntax highlighting for Rust, and fixes three tiny
		bugs (but in such far corners of the editor that they aren't
		even worth mentioning).

2016.06.17 - nano 2.6.0 "Rubicon" fixes more than fifty little bugs -- and
		some of them not so little.  It improves moving about in
		the file browser, corrects failings of the internal spell
		checker, adds a new feature (comment/uncomment lines, with
		default binding M-3), makes some error messages clearer,
		shows more of a file when positionlog is used and the cursor
		is near the end, displays all error messages at startup if
		there are multiple ones, does not misinterpret keystrokes
		when typing very fast, is less eager to trim the filename
		on narrow terminals, speeds up case-insensitive searches,
		and allows to abort re-searches.  Among bunches of other
		things.  It is worth the trouble to upgrade.


2016.02.25 - GNU nano 2.5.3 "Alphys" is released.  This release
		contains fixes for bugs like: stray cursor positioning
		errors, many many memory leaks including file reading,
		using the file browser, searching for multibyte characters,
		history completion, and many other places.
			New features include the ability to trim whitespace
		from the ends of lines when justifying text, see nanorc(5)
		option justifytrim for deets.  As always thank you for your
		continued support of nano, and keep sparing.

2016.02.12 - GNU nano 2.5.2 is carrying too many dogs.  This release includes
		several fixes for various memory leaks, position history
		size growth, and a long standing issue with using
		nano under sudo creating root-owned files.  There are also
		the usual bevy of documentation and other miscellaneous
		fixes and touchups.  Upgrade today while supplies last,
		operators are standing by!

2016.01.11 - GNU nano 2.5.1 "Salzburg" is released.  It includes fixes
		for a syntax-highlighting bug and a positionlog bug, it
		disables a time-eating multiline regex in the C syntax,
		and it adds an escape hatch to the WriteOut menu when
		--tempfile is used: the discardbuffer command, ^Q.  It
		also has translation updates for fifteen languages, and
		a small fix in the softwrap code.  So... you are heartily
		invited to upgrade.  Enjoy!

2015.12.05 - GNU nano 2.5.0 "Karma", the first release of the 2.5 series,
		is now available.  Please note that as of this release,
		there will no longer be separate stable and unstable
		branches.  The development team will prioritize bug fixes
		as needed, and make new releases in proportion to the
		severity of the bugs which are fixed.
			This release includes all of the fixes now in
		2.4.3, as well as color syntax highlighting improvements,
		undo fixes, and many more improvements!  Thank you for
		using nano!


2015.11.18 - GNU nano 2.4.3 "Apocalypse" is now available for your
		downloading pleasure.  This release includes a myriad
		of fixes including several memory leaks, issues with
		color syntax highlighting, search/replace, file
		insertion and help menu bugs.  Many thanks to
		Benno Schulenberg for tireless efforts on the vast
		majority of fixes for some time now.  As always please
		report bugs via the Savannah page, and remember to
		Share and Enjoy.

2015.07.05 - GNU nano 2.4.2 "Portorož" is released.  This release
		includes several fixes, including the ability to resize
		when in modes other than the main editing window,
		proper displaying of invalid UTF-8 bytes, new syntax
		definitions for Elisp, Guile, and PostgreSQL, and
		better display of shortcuts in the help menu and file
		browser.  Thanks for your patience and using nano!

2015.04.14 - GNU nano 2.4.1 "Glitch Gremlin" is released.  This release
		includes several fixes for issues with the file browser
		menu, linter and formatter functions, spell checker,
		undo/redo with some specific marked-cutting situations,
		and some small improvements to the color syntax
		highlighting definitions.  There are also various
		documentation and code comment updates included, and
		finally, fixes for compilation on non-GNU/Linux systems
		and certain configure combinations.  Toasters!

2015.03.22 - GNU nano 2.4.0 "lizf" is released.  This is the first
		stable release in many years, and brings together many
		new features from the 2.3 series, including:
		a fully functional undo system (now enabled by default),
		vim-compatible file locking, linter support, formatter
		support, syntax highlighting flexibility, and many fixes
		for issues reported since 2.2.  Many sincere thanks
		to all of the bug reports, patches, well wishes and
		contributions from everyone who has continued to
		support us.  Thank you for using nano!


2015.02.27 - GNU nano 2.3.99pre3 "Ashley" is released.  This is likely
		to be the last release before the next major (2.4.0)
		release.  Please test it out and send us any feedback
		via the Savannah bug page for nano
		(https://savannah.gnu.org/bugs/?group=nano).  This
		release includes fixes for rebinding toggles via
		nanorc, several memory alignment fixes, and documentation
		and build updates.  As always thank you for using
		nano - Share and Enjoy!

2015.02.06 - GNU nano 2.3.99pre2 "Snowblind" is released.  This release
		contains only fixes, including: a long-standing problem
		with cutting in nano-tiny, several memory alignment
		improvements, and issues with leftover file locks.  Please
		keep reporting bugs so we can get a happy and healthy
		2.4.0 soon.  Thanks for using nano!

2015.01.06 - GNU nano 2.3.99pre1 "Junior" is released.  As the first
		2.4 release candidate there will be fewer new features
		but many bugfixes going forward.  This release contains
		new support for language reformatters like Go's gofmt
		command which takes the place of the spelling checker.
		Fixes in this release include many syntax highlighting
		fixes and improvements, and documentation formatting updates.
		As always please report bugs via the Savannah bug page for
		nano (https://savannah.gnu.org/bugs/?group=nano), so we can
		release a super awesome and bug-free 2.4.0 soon!

2014.07.17 - GNU nano 2.3.6 "Columbo" is released.  This release
		contains a fix for installing internationalization
		files.  Also included are scattered documentation
		(in particular man page) fixes, and a few touchups
		to syntax highlighting definitions.  Oh, just one
		more thing, thanks for using nano!

2014.07.11 - GNU nano 2.3.5 "lucky day" is released.  This release
		contains many visible and under-the-hood fixes for
		components such as file locking, more fixes to the
		undo system, and you no longer have to explicitly ask
		nano to have undo/redo support as it now defaults to
		being enabled.  Other notable fixes include a better
		handling of --tempfile mode, and better handling of
		command line arguments when also attempting to specify
		+<line number>.  As always, please file any bugs you
		find at the Savannah page for nano, at
		https://savannah.gnu.org/bugs/index.php?42639 and
		thanks for using nano.

2014.06.02 - GNU nano 2.3.4 won't leave you high, won't leave you dry.  This
		release contains only a small number of fixes, but in
		particular allows nano to compile on non-UTF-8 curses
		implementations (i.e. libncursesw).  Other small fixes to
		the undo implementation and the default syntax config are
		also included.  As always, Share and Enjoy!

2014.05.28 - GNU nano 2.3.3 is in its right place.  This release contains
		many many improvements to the core system, including
		substantial improvements to the undo/redo code, UTF-8
		handling, the configure script, and display of shortcuts
		on very wide terminals,  New features include the
		ability to write to named pipes (--noread), as well as
		linter support (see the nanorc man page for details).  Also
		included are much improved syntax highlighting code, and
		configurations for JSON, texinfo, Go, and a default syntax
		for catch-all highlighting.  Finally, nano now has the
		ability to set the color of the title bar, status bar, and
		shortcut keys (e.g. "^X") and their descriptions.  Again
		see the nanorc page for details.  There's much more, too
		much to include here, but please keep those reports and
		general feedback coming!  Thank you for helping us help
		you help us all.

2013.03.22 - GNU nano 2.3.2 "Annoy your coworkers for fun and profit" is
		released.  This release introduces vim-style file locking
		(though not backup/restore), useful when using nano
		in a multi-editor environment.  Feedback is welcome if
		you run into any issues with this new code.  Other new
		features include additional support for word boundary
		checking when cross compiling, fixes for trying to go to
		an invalid line number, and the usual documentation
		tweaks.

2011.05.10 - GNU nano 2.3.1 "I'm in space" is released.  This
		release includes some fixes for the new libmagic code, as
		well as a fix for improper character counts when using
		auto-indent.  Also included are new syntax highlighting
		definitions for RPM spec and Lua files.  Thanks for
		using nano and keep circulating the tapes.

2011.02.26 - GNU nano 2.3.0 "Septic surprise" is released.  This first
		release in the 2.3 unstable series brings several new
		features.  First, libmagic support for syntax highlighting
		has been added on top of the existing file extension
		and header support already available.  Secondly, cursor
		position can be saved between editing sessions with
		the -P or --poslog command-line flag, or via 'set poslog'
		in your .nanorc.  Also included are some fixes for
		compilation with g++, and better handling of issues
		writing the backup file, which should reduce the need
		for the 'set allow_insecure_backup' nanorc option.
		Don't stop, get it get it, don't stop, get it get it.


2010.11.22 - GNU nano 2.2.6 "Pimp my BBS" wants you to go to
		www.desertbus.org and donate a few bucks for the great
		Child's Play Charity!  This is just a small release to
		update a bug where restricted mode was not particularly
		restricted since key bindings were introduced.  It also
		signals the return of win32 builds which now feature
		nanorc support; please see the FAQ for details of how
		to enable it, this feature is a bit of a kludge for now.
		Remember that when all else fails, USE SPACE JUMP.

2010.08.05 - GNU nano 2.2.5 "Inactivity timeout" is now available.
		This release includes slightly less restrictive checking
		when writing files in strange environments (e.g. when
		being used out of crontab).  For very strange situations
		(such as where you cannot change the permissions on the
		file you're writing), there is a new rc file option
		'allow_insecure_backup' to be even more permissive and
		allow the write to proceed.  Also included are some
		syntax highlighting updates, and that is about it.
		Keep fighting the good fight children.

2010.04.15 - GNU nano 2.2.4 is nobody's fool.  First and foremost,
		this release includes some security fixes due to
		an assessment of nano's vulnerability to symlink attacks
		on open files.  The CVEs fixed with this release are
		CVE-2010-1160 and CVE-2010-1161.  Also included are fixes
		for various crash modes when using the spell checker
		on new files in multibuffer mode (surely you've used
		that combination recently? no?) as well as a fixing
		the 'file was modified' message when saving to a
		new filename (since how would nano know?).  And
		the list would not be complete without our
		third-times-the-charm fixes to page up/down due to
		the soft wrapping code.  The lone new feature
		included is a new syntax highlighting definition for
		cmake-related files.  Please do consider upgrading to
		this release if still using the 2.0 series since
		fixes for that version are still forthcoming.

2010.02.11 - GNU nano 2.2.3 "fumbling toward stability" is released.
		This release contains a fix for only one bug, but a
		rather irritating one: when paging up/down with smooth
		scrolling, the cursor position was not being preserved
		due to a bug in 2.2.2.  With such a targeted fix
		like this what could POSSIBLY go WRONG?  Hahaha.
		Enjoy and if you find new bugs, as always please
		use Savannah's bug tracker.
		http://savannah.gnu.org/bugs/?func=additem&group=nano

2010.01.17 - GNU nano 2.2.2 is released for you, you, you.  This
		release includes fixes for: crashes when writing
		backup files in certain conditions, improper
		screen centering when moving up/down in various
		combination of smooth scrolling and soft wrapping modes,
		a search crash on the armel arch, and issues with
		lots of keybinding customizations causing crashing
		particularly on FreeBSD.  Also included are better
		help menu entries for forward/back in the file browser,
		some man page tweaks and one assert fix.   As always,
		share and enjoy!

2009.12.12 - GNU nano 2.2.1 "DLR strikes back" is open for business.
		This release fixes many bugs, including: missing
		keybindings for page up/down and GotoDir in the browser,
		^P/^N in the help menu, and restoration of M-W as the
		default re-search binding.  Other fixes include several
		issues with compiler warnings and configure options, and
		documentation updates, including the nano texinfo manual,
		nano and nanorc man pages, and UPGRADE file, and some
		missing syntax highlighting entries for the sample nanorc.
		And no release would be complete without the latest round
		of 'final' soft wrapping fixes!  Finally, nano will no
		longer print a warning when attempting to insert the
		contents of a read-only file into an existing buffer.
		Enjoy and Happy Hanukkah.

2009.11.30 - GNU nano 2.2.0 "Doc Brown" is released!  The culmination
		of almost two years of development and hot on the heels
		of nano's 10th birthday is available for all your
		editing needs!  Bugs fixed since the last release
		include several fixes for tiny mode (involving both
		the help keys and replace menu text), more 'final'
		fixes for soft wrapping, and several typo and documentation
		updates including nanorc tweaks and a new syntax
		highlighting file for makefiles.  Also included is a long
		standing fix for random crashing when using nanorc on
		FreeBSD, and nano will no longer clear the screen on
		suspend to maintain compatibility with other *nix editors.
		For those who haven't been playing along at home, please
		see the official web page for the summary of new
		features since 2.0.  Special thanks to all who have
		submitted bug reports recently in support of our new
		stable release, and apologies for all those bugs we
		didn't yet find :-) Peace to all.


2009.11.21 - GNU nano 2.1.99pre2 is available for a special pre-Black
		Friday discount.  Included are some (hopefully
		final) fixes for issues with last page display
		caused by the soft wrapping code, and a fix for
		a long standing issue with hitting the Home key when
		going through the search history.  On the features
		front, nano will now attempt to retain the proper
		ownership and permissions when trying to create a
		.save file due to receiving a signal.  Nano can also
		now unbind keys from one or more menus via the 'unbind'
		keyword.   Finally, passing --fill or --nowrap on
		the command line will now override any related
		.nanorc entries.  Speak now or forever hold your bugs!

2009.11.15 - GNU nano 2.1.99pre1 "take a bow" is out there, man, it's
		out there all right.  This release contains mainly
		bugfixes, underscoring that we are preparing for the
		next stable series release.  Included are many fixes
		for the new soft wrapping code, compiler warning tweaks,
		and the modification time warning no longer triggers
		when saving a file as a new name.  Also include are
		some fixes for various nanorc options, and there are
		surely more bugs to find before we call the code base
		stable, so please keep those reports coming!

2009.09.14 - GNU nano 2.1.11 is on very thin ice, very thin ice, very thin
		ice.  This release includes two new features: first, nano
		will check whether the current file is writable when it
		is opened, and warn if it is not on the status bar.  Secondly,
		a new soft-wrapping (AKA full line display) option is
		available, which will attempt to fully display the contents
		of lines longer than the width of the screen without the
		usual truncation and a '$' symbol at the end of the line.
		It can be enabled via Meta-$ inside the editor, via the
		-$ or --softwrap command line flags, or "set softwrap"
		in your .nanorc).  As always please report any bugs to the
		nano Savannah project page
		(http://savannah.gnu.org/bugs/?func=additem&group=nano)
		Remember: data loss happens, back up your files.

2009.07.28 - GNU nano 2.1.10 "Ellie" is released.  This version includes
		various fixes for portability including some older HP-UX
		compiler combos, various compiler warnings, and some crash
		fixes in the undo code.  On the topic of the latter item,
		the undo code is now marked as experimental since it can
		cause severe stability and memory issues, and thus now
		requires a flag (-u, --undo) in order to enable it.
		Please feel free to continue to test the undo code and
		thanks again for using nano for your text editing needs.
		Go team Nano!

2009.02.16 - GNU nano 2.1.9 wonders what all that glass is doing on the
		floor!  This release is primarily meant as a less buggy
		version of 2.1.8, particularly for issues with the new
		sped-up syntax highlighting code.  Other fixes include
		configure-time detection of groff HTML support before
		attempting to generate the HTML version of man pages,
		and using ~ or ~username syntax in .nanorc should now
		work again.  Also, nano will now only ask for one
		acknowledgement of errors it encounters when parsing
		nanorc files, and a new flag -q (--quiet) will silence
		these messages altogether.  Give it a go, and happy
		birthday lenny!

2009.02.07 - GNU nano 2.1.8 "unsafe at any speed" is released.  This
		release include some long overdue performance
		improvements in syntax color highlighting, the ability
		to abort running searches (useful mainly when
		editing very large files) and the ability to use nano
		like a pager for viewing standard input (i.e. "nano -").
		Additionally, there are gentoo syntax highlighting
		updates and fixes for issues with reading files
		in a directory with strange parent directory permissions.
		The key bindings code was also substantially changed
		in order to be more ISO-C compatible.  Be sure to use
		the Savannah page not only for bug reports but for any
		features you would like to see before the next stable
		series is released.  Have fun with it!

2008.11.10 - GNU nano 2.1.7 "Effingham" is ready to make good on those
		campaign promises of lower bug rates and 50% more pie.
		This release includes a new check for external
		modifications when saving a file, some code and
		documentation cleanups, and more bug fixes for
		the new undo code (but we continue to welcome your bug
		reports via the Savannah bug page at
		http://savannah.gnu.org/bugs/?func=additem&group=nano.
		Come get some.

2008.10.03 - GNU nano 2.1.6 was for new features before it was against
		them.  This release includes more undo capability,
		several new syntax highlighting configurations including
		Objective C, OCaml, and Fortran, and a new capability
		to activate highlighting based on the 1st line of the
		file being edited.  Also, the new default configure
		options now include color syntax highlighting, .nanorc
		support, multibuffer and extras.  These items can still
		be disabled and are not enabled with --enable-tiny.  Bug
		fixes include better signal handling under Cygwin, and
		that's about it.  Again please remember to
		submit bug reports via Savannah at
		http://savannah.gnu.org/bugs/?func=additem&group=nano
		as undo functions certainly need more testing.
		Bon appetit.

2008.08.30 - GNU nano 2.1.5 is ready to lead on day one.  This release
		contains a better fix for incorrectly reported successful
		writes on full filesystems, more helpful messages when
		an internal error occurs in the undo code, and fixes for
		various combinations of configure-time options and
		compiler flags.  Also included is new support for
		changing the rc file name at configure time, and
		using GNU-style regexes for word-boundaries on systems
		which do not support them natively, as well as the ever
		popular translation updates.  Rock the tarball.

2008.08.09 - GNU nano 2.1.4 "I told you so!" is released.  This release
		includes fixes for several severe issues with the new
		undo/redo code.  Also the behavior of writing
		files when using backup mode has changed as well: if writing
		the backup file fails, nano will not attempt to write the
		current file.  This should help folks who enjoy "extreme
		text editing", i.e. editing files on file systems which
		are likely to run out of space; see Savannah bug #24000.
		Have fun with it!

2008.08.04 - GNU nano 2.1.3 "least stable version ever" is released.  This
		release includes new (and experimental) undo and redo
		functionality for most text operations.  The default
		key bindings are Meta-U for undo and Meta-E for redo, but
		these can be remapped using the new 2.1 keybinding code.
		Also included are some fixes for configuring using wide
		curses, crashing when invoking the help menu with
		certain locales, and not saving the search history when
		compiled with configure options.

2008.04.24 - GNU nano 2.1.2 "New York City" is released.  This release
		contains fixes for binding bad keys, some
		configure-specific compilation failures, and more issues
		with the new input back end and in particular the status
		bar.  Also fixed are some long standing issues with
		compiling on AIX, and a segfault when making the terminal
		window too small.  Rest in Peace Tim and George!

2008.04.01 - GNU nano 2.1.1 wont get fooled again.  This release contains
		fixes for the new user-rebindable keys (in particular
		bracket match which was mis-bound), and various
		problems with translations and configure-related
		compilation problems are now fixed as well.
		It also contains new syntax highlighting
		definitions for TCL, PHP, Gentoo and Debian-related
		files, and some documentation updates as well.
		Please continue to send reports with the key
		binding code to the Savannah page
		(https://savannah.gnu.org/bugs/?group=nano).

2008.03.18 - GNU nano 2.1.0 "under old mismanagement" is released.
		This first release in the 2.1 development series
		introduces rebindable keys for most actions inside
		the editor.  Please see the nanorc(5) page for
		more information on configuring key bindings.  Please
		also report all keybinding bugs (crashes, missing
		menu functions) using the Savannah bug tracker URL,
		https://savannah.gnu.org/bugs/?group=nano and
		thanks for sticking with us!


2007.12.20 - GNU nano 2.0.7 keeps its balance.  This release fixes
		several bugs, among others: a segfault and several
		cursor positioning problems when uncutting text or
		inserting files into the current buffer; a problem where
		the total number of characters would be miscalculated
		when replacing single-byte characters with multibyte
		ones; several minor issues with the statusbar prompt
		involving text display and mouse support; and several
		oddities when tab-completing in the middle of a line.
		It also improves autodetection of DOS and Mac format
		files, properly supports the mouse wheel when using a
		version of ncurses built with the --enable-ext-mouse
		option, fixes some problems under NetBSD curses, adds a
		lot of translation updates, and adds more minor
		documentation updates.  Slang curses emulation support
		has also been changed to turn off all the options that
		--enable-tiny does, as it's hopelessly broken otherwise.
		Finally, nano is now licensed under the GNU GPL version
		3 or later, and its documentation is now dual-licensed
		under the GNU GPL version 3 or later and the GNU FDL
		version 1.2 or later.  Have fun.

2007.04.26 - GNU nano 2.0.6 "that was quick" is released.  This release
		fixes a potential segfault after justifying text marked
		from the bottom up.  It also adds one more minor
		documentation update.  Enjoy.

2007.04.22 - GNU nano 2.0.5 braces for impact.  Among other things, this
		release fixes various problems (including a segfault)
		when trying to open or save a file in a directory
		beginning with "~" that isn't a home directory; fixes a
		problem where a file with no name could be saved over an
		existing filename with no warning about overwriting it;
		properly disallows opening directories or device files
		from "include" commands in nanorc files; no longer
		displays a misleading prompt when trying to save in
		restricted mode with the mark on; and properly supports
		the Cancel and Shift-Cancel keys.  It also improves
		several color syntaxes to highlight trailing whitespace,
		just as the Java syntax does, and adds yet more minor
		documentation updates.  Have fun.

2007.04.06 - GNU nano 2.0.4 heralds the dawn.  This release contains
		proper support for the Ctrl-[arrow key], Shift-[arrow
		key], and F13-F16 keys under Xfce's Terminal.  It also
		adds still more minor documentation updates.  Enjoy.

2007.01.29 - GNU nano 2.0.3 flows toward its ending.  This release
		contains several minor optimizations to make the
		executable a little smaller under some circumstances,
		some translation updates, improvements to the color
		syntax for Python, and still more minor documentation
		updates.  Have fun.

2006.12.20 - GNU nano 2.0.2 forges ahead.  This release fixes a segfault
		when trying to save in a nonexistent directory; fixes
		handling of strings containing nulls at the "Write File",
		"Insert File", "Execute Command", and "Go to Directory"
		prompts; fixes several minor memory leaks; fixes two
		more potential compilation warnings; adds a few
		translation updates; and adds a few more minor
		documentation updates.  Enjoy.

2006.11.20 - GNU nano 2.0.1 emerges from its cocoon.  This release
		contains several bugfixes: saving one file over another
		will now always warn about overwriting it, overwriting
		a file is no longer possible when saving a new file in
		restricted mode, and zero-length Unicode characters are
		now highlighted properly when nano is built without
		regular expression support.  It also adds several minor
		documentation updates.  Have fun with it.

2006.11.06 - GNU nano 2.0.0 does its little dance.  This release adds
		documentation updates and a few cosmetic tweaks.
			For those who haven't been following nano 1.3
		development, there are a ton of new features, including
		support for UTF-8, moving to a specified line and column
		instead of just a line, improved color syntax
		highlighting, inserting previously untypeable characters
		using "Verbatim Input" mode, and copying text into the
		cutbuffer without cutting it.  There are also fixes for
		some long-standing bugs, such as the "NumLock glitch"
		from nano 1.2.x, and the inability to unjustify text
		after resizing.  Finally, there are also a ton of
		translation updates and new translations, as well as new
		color syntaxes.  See the UPGRADE file for more
		information, and enjoy the new stable release.


2006.10.25 - GNU nano 1.9.99pre3 learns to appreciate life.  This
		release fixes a bug where the screen sometimes wouldn't
		be updated properly after copying text into the
		cutbuffer, fixes a potential warning while compiling,
		and fixes a few other minor inconsistencies.  Have fun.

2006.10.02 - GNU nano 1.9.99pre2 crosses the threshold.  This release
		fixes a few more bugs: cursor positioning after leaving
		the statusbar prompt has been fixed, and verbatim input
		at the statusbar prompt now properly handles newlines.
		Enjoy.

2006.08.29 - GNU nano 1.9.99pre1 passes through the flames.  This
		release fixes various bugs in the last version: the
		mouse support properly ignores everything except clicks
		of the left mouse button; the statusbar is now blanked
		properly when it should be; indenting and unindenting
		operate on the current line when the mark is off; nano
		should build on Tru64, NetBSD, and other systems that
		use termcap instead of terminfo in their curses
		libraries; the built-in file browser now properly
		navigates file lists that take up only one row; the
		cursor position is now completely restored after
		inserting a file into the current buffer, and after
		inserting the output of a command into a new buffer; the
		^X shortcut at the search prompt has been removed, as
		official Pico doesn't include it and it's too easily
		confused with Exit; the screen is updated properly after
		scrolling a line without moving the cursor; the keyboard
		input routines behave more consistently; and so on.
		Have fun with it.

2006.06.26 - GNU nano 1.3.12 escapes the darkness.  This release
		contains the last new features that nano will have
		before 2.0: copying text into the cutbuffer without
		cutting it, indenting lines of marked text with a single
		keystroke, reworked help text that should be easier for
		new users, searching for filenames in the file browser,
		the ability to include color regexes in files separate
		from nanorc files, etc.  It also contains many bugfixes.
		Text can now be unjustified after justifying it and
		resizing the window; the screen is now cleared when
		suspending; the "default" color syntax is now handled
		properly at all times; lines of text containing tabs are
		now wrapped at the right place; double-column characters
		are now properly displayed when past the right edge of
		the screen; invalid multiline color regexes are now
		ignored; and so on.  Enjoy.

2006.03.30 - GNU nano 1.3.11 awakens from its fever dream.  This release
		focuses mostly on bugfixes, which include better
		handling of the cursor at the statusbar prompt, support
		for certain combinations of Shift and keypad keys in
		both normal and --rebind-keypad mode, a fix for a minor
		display problem after some searches, a real fix for a
		long-standing segfault when displaying overly long
		lines, and a real fix for nano's not hanging up properly
		in xterm under certain circumstances.  There are also
		several new features, such as the ability to set the
		characters used as brackets when searching for matching
		brackets, and tab completion of directories at the "Go
		To Directory" prompt.  Have fun.

2005.12.23 - GNU nano 1.3.10 rises to the surface.  This release
		contains several new features as well as fixes for
		several longstanding bugs.  The former include the
		ability to scroll up or down single lines without
		scrolling the cursor, reworked bracket searching code
		that doesn't require regular expression support,
		reworked command execution code that uses $SHELL if
		available instead of hardcoding "/bin/sh", and the
		ability to no longer add newlines to files that don't
		end in them via the -L/--nonewlines option.  The latter
		include fixes to the statusbar prompt so that mouse
		clicks work properly on it, fixes to the Yes/No/All
		prompt so that mouse clicks on it work properly when
		-O/--morespace is used, and fixes to the resize handling
		so that nano dies properly when the terminal is too
		small to display a prompt.  Enjoy.

2005.10.23 - GNU nano 1.3.9 breaks through the wall.  This release
		includes major enhancements as well as bugfixes.  The
		enhancements include better handling of invalid UTF-8,
		expansion of the word count option to also count lines
		and characters in the file or selection, more efficient
		screen update routines, a readded -K/--rebindkeypad
		option to work around numeric keypad problems on
		terminals that don't show the usual NumLock glitch, a
		new -W/--wordbounds option to properly detect words
		containing punctuation when moving among them, and
		massive improvements to the color code such as handling
		of unspecified foreground colors, more efficient memory
		usage for color regexes, and new reserved syntaxes
		"default" and "none".  The bugfixes include fixes for
		the rewritten history code, fixes for potential line
		numbering problems on 64-bit platforms, fixes for a few
		long-standing minor display problems, a fix for erroneous
		hangups occurring while waiting for input, and a fix for
		a segfault when displaying certain overly long lines.
		Have fun with it.

2005.06.30 - GNU nano 1.3.8 floats at its own level.  This release
		contains several new features.  Among other things, you
		can now move to a specified column number as well as
		line number within a file, file backups saved in a
		backup directory will have unique names, the search and
		replace history routines should work more consistently,
		you can get a word count by pressing Meta-D at the edit
		window, and there's a new -E/--tabstospaces option to
		convert all typed tabs to spaces (--backupdir's short
		option has been changed to -C).  In terms of bugfixes,
		this release contains fixes for minor problems with
		screen updates, UTF-8 display, and flow control; a fix
		for a segfault when displaying some lines ending with
		tabs; better handling of constant cursor position
		display; improved color parsing in the rcfile; and
		support for the "Regexp" toggle in tiny mode
		(-R/--regexp is gone, and --restricted's short option
		has been changed to -R), among other things.  Enjoy.

2005.04.10 - GNU nano 1.3.7 claws its way to the top.  This release
		mostly contains bugfixes for the massive amount of new
		code in 1.3.6.  Among other things, nano builds with
		debug support again; going into the help browser at the
		"Read File" prompt no longer kicks you out of the prompt
		after you exit the help browser; paragraph searching no
		longer skips over certain cases of single-line
		paragraphs; the titlebar no longer cuts off some UTF-8
		strings prematurely; and the text displayed in the help
		browser is now wrapped as it was in nano 1.2.x, taking
		UTF-8 support into account.  New features include an
		--enable/disable-utf8 configure option to explicitly
		turn detection of UTF-8 support on or off, and sample
		regexes for C++ as well as C.  Have fun.

2005.03.20 - GNU nano 1.3.6 "shout it from the rooftops" is released.
		This release finally includes the long-awaited support
		for UTF-8.  Other new features include the ability to
		insert UTF-8 characters using verbatim input; the
		ability to delete all text from the cursor position to
		the end of the file via ^W^X as (patched) Pico does;
		improvements to input and output so that pasted text
		displays faster, improvements to the statusbar prompt so
		that more edit window shortcuts, including verbatim
		input and previous/next word search, work in it; a new
		option to allow using the formerly always-blank second
		line of the screen as part of the edit window; and the
		ability to refresh the help browser and file browser
		windows via Ctrl-L.  Notable bug fixes include a fix for
		a segfault when using full justify, and a fix for the
		long-standing bug where nano would keep running if the
		terminal it was in died unexpectedly.  Enjoy.

2004.11.22 - GNU nano 1.3.5 hurls itself forward.  New features in this
		release include the ability to replace only marked text
		when the mark is on, improvements to smooth scrolling so
		that it applies everywhere instead of just affecting the
		movement keys, improvements to how files are opened so
		that they are no longer displayed unnecessarily, support
		for multiple +LINE arguments in addition to multiple
		filenames on the command line, autodetection of the
		format to save a file in based on the format it was in
		when it was opened, the ability to toggle both ways
		between the "Read File" and "Execute Command" prompts
		and the "Search" and "Go to Line" prompts, and support
		for cross-compiling nano.  As for bug fixes, the
		"tabsize" nanorc option works again, mouse clicks on the
		shortcut list trigger the right shortcuts again,
		tab-completing a filename with %'s in it no longer
		causes a segfault, the internal spell checker no longer
		skips words after the cursor position when the cursor is
		in the middle of the file, and spell checking of only
		marked text now works properly.  Have fun with it.

2004.08.17 - GNU nano 1.3.4 marches forth after a false start.  This
		release mainly features fixes for the bugs that crept
		into the last release.  Among other things, nano now
		compiles again with certain options, quoted justify now
		works properly on systems without regex.h, full justify
		no longer segfaults when used on a file with no
		paragraphs, previous paragraph searching works properly
		again, tab completion is properly disabled when needed
		in restricted mode, Ctrl-C is no longer disabled after
		using the alternate spell checker, the permissions of a
		newly created file now match those of nano 1.2.x again,
		and replacing all text in a file now properly updates
		the screen in all cases.  New features include sample
		regexes for patch files, improvements to the sample
		regexes for C files, and support for strings greater
		than 1023 characters and/or containing nulls in
		.nano_history.  Additionally, the full justify keystroke
		has been changed to match current Pico, and whitespace
		display mode is now turned off by default.  Enjoy.

2004.06.28 - GNU nano 1.3.3 marches forth.  There are several new
		features in this release, including a restricted mode
		that provides better security than just setting an
		operating directory, the ability to justify the entire
		file at once, support for a "smart" Home key that can
		leap from the beginning of text on a line to the true
		beginning of the line (or the reverse) in one stroke,
		support for specifying an alternative spell checker in
		$SPELL, the ability to specify the characters used to
		display spaces and tabs so that they can easily be told
		apart, and the ability to specify the characters marking
		the ends of sentences as used in justification.  There
		are also several bug fixes; among other things,
		justification now keeps spaces at the ends of all but
		the last line of a paragraph as Pico does, saving a
		marked selection no longer changes the current filename
		to the filename the selection was saved under, resizing
		now works better and no longer corrupts the screen under
		slang, and the movement functions now avoid doing
		unnecessary redraws and hence work faster.  In short,
		there are a lot of new things to play with.  Enjoy.

2004.03.31 - GNU nano 1.3.2 is prepared for the void.  New features in
		this release include the ability to spell-check only
		marked text and the ability to save all backup files in
		a specified directory instead of wherever the original
		files are.  Bug fixes include a fix for a segfault when
		replacing certain regular expressions, fixes for some
		misbehavior when doing searches, minor fixes to verbatim
		input mode and keyboard input in general, better
		handling of window resizes at certain times, and
		allowing the mark to be saved properly again when
		switching between multiple file buffers.  nano has also
		been ported to the Tandem NonStop Kernel.  Have fun.

2004.01.09 - GNU nano 1.3.1 is outside the gates.  This release
		features, among other things, fixes for the input
		routines to deal with some problems they had, a
		reorganized shortcut list for the help browser, minor
		Pico compatibility improvements for the file browser,
		fixes for misbehavior when replacing certain regular
		expressions, and the ability to highlight those regular
		expressions properly.  It also allows searching without
		prompting to work in view mode, adds support for glib
		2.x for those systems that need it, updates the .spec
		file for the 1.3 branch, prompts you first when you try
		to save a file under a different name, and adds a new
		verbatim input mode that acts as ^V does under vi, but
		with additional Pico compatibility (explained in the
		FAQ).  Basically, a bunch of fixes and a few new
		features for your editor of choice.  Enjoy.

2003.10.22 - GNU nano 1.3.0 is loosed upon the world.  This is the first
		release in the unstable 1.3.x series, and as such it
		includes a lot of new features, including the addition
		of a -d option for those FreeBSD users with Backspace
		keys that act like Delete keys, the ability to repeat
		the last search without prompting, the ability to search
		for the beginning or end of a paragraph, new smooth
		paging routines to go with the smooth scrolling
		routines, and various improvements to the input and
		display routines to make them behave more intuitively.
		It also includes the usual load of bugfixes.  Enjoy.


2003.08.11 - GNU nano 1.2.2 is released, only four months since the
		last version :-).  This release includes fixes for
		broken regex detection, search history recall, and
		keypad handling with -K.  Debugging strings are no
		longer translated and comments denote where translations
		should be as short as possible (i.e. the statusbar).
		There are new examples for syntax highlighting, and
		documentation updates and fixes.  The 1.3.0 CVS tree
		will be opening soon for all your nano desires, so stay
		tuned!

2003.04.19 - Happy Easter! GNU nano 1.2.1 is released.  This release
		features a new check for broken regexec()
		implementations and some variable, function and macro
		cleanups.  Fixes are included for search history,
		cutting marked text, alt keyboard mode, and the usual
		translation and documentation updates.

2003.02.19 - GNU nano 1.2.0 is released.  Few changes from pre3, just
		some doc and translation updates, and bugfixes for
		justify and file conversion.  For those of you who
		haven't kept up with the 1.1 unstable series, v1.2
		brings nanorc support, color syntax highlighting,
		multiple file buffers, search/replace history and much
		much more.  Please read the UPGRADE file for details,
		and enjoy GNU nano 1.2.0.


2003.02.13 - GNU nano 1.1.99pre3 "The last testing version, no
		really!" is released.  This release includes fixes for
		wrapping (again), resizing, color syntax highlighting,
		rcfile parsing, the mouse code, more memory leaks, and
		some reversion of the code to get the user's home
		directory (nano will now again rely on $HOME).  There
		are also translation updates, a new manual page for the
		nanorc file, and an UPGRADE file detailing the changes
		since version 1.0.  Please submit reports for any bugs
		you might find to the development team
		(nano-devel@gnu.org), and enjoy nano almost-1.2.0 ;-)

2003.02.03 - GNU nano 1.1.99pre2 "bugs in my pockets, bugs in my
		shoes" is released.  There are, not surprisingly, only
		bugfixes in this release as we move toward the stable
		1.2.0 release.  Fixes are included for translatable
		string format, subexpression replacement, constant
		cursor position, invalid search regexes, justify, screen
		state on SIGHUP and SIGTERM, cutting to end cuts with
		long lines, many file browser and operating directory
		bugs, memory and file descriptor leaks, marker code,
		spell checker, the mouse code with long lines, multiple
		buffers and non-file open errors, replacement string
		length, and a silly but serious history message crash.
		There is also a drastic improvement in CPU utilization
		for the color regex code.
			Depending on the number of bugs found in this
		release, there may be a 1.1.99pre3 or RC1, or just a
		1.2.0 release.  Most of the major bugs seem to have been
		worked out, so if you are waiting for a good time to
		test nano before the official 1.2.0 release, this would
		be the one to use.  Happy bug hunting!

2003.01.17 - GNU nano 1.1.99pre1 "enough already" has been released.
		This release is, barring bug fixes and documentation
		updates, what version 1.2.0 has looked like, feature
		wise.  There will very likely be bugs, just due the
		volume of changes made in this release.  Search and
		replace string history has been added, including an
		option to log history to ~/.nano_history (-H,
		--historylog).  Because of this, the Pico incompatible
		search/replace string behavior that used to be the
		default has been deleted.  The old "pico" flag (-p) is
		now compatible with Pico's "preserve" mode for allowing
		flow control characters; by default this version ignores
		both ^Q and ^S.  The --disable-wrapping-as-root
		configure option has been forward ported from version
		1.0.x, and a new flag to enable all extra options
		(--enable-all) has been added.  The internal spell
		checker has been improved, meaning you will now be
		prompted only once for each unique capitalization of a
		given word.
			There have also been lots of bug fixes,
		including the "trying to insert a directory name in
		multibuffer mode bug", the ugly spell checker scrolling,
		the color code, cutting text crashes, justification,
		deleting the "magic line" via replace, and cursor
		positioning on the statusbar.  There have also been the
		usual helping of translation and documentation updates.
			Please send all new feedback on this release
		direct to the development list (nano-devel@gnu.org).

2002.10.24 - GNU nano 1.1.12 "Make Jordi happy" is released.  This
		release demonstrates that nano is starting to freeze for
		version 1.2.  New features include a Meta-Y toggle for
		syntax highlighting, pluralized i18n, and a handler for
		SIGTERM.  Nano now ignores XOFF (^S) to stop accidental
		lock-ups, and no longer references malloc.h.
			Also included are fixes for zero-length regex
		matches, segfaults with --disable-mouse, justification,
		memory corruption with the browser, version and help
		cmdline output, and translation updates.  Aside from the
		(currently up in the air) search history behavior, the
		next version of nano should be 1.1.99pre1.  Have fun!

2002.10.01 - GNU nano 1.1.11 "Oddball" is released.  This release
		features a new version of gettext, a new and improved
		syntax highlighting engine, and some updates for the
		nanorc.sample file.  The toggles for case sensitivity
		(Meta-C) and regular expressions (Meta-R) have changed
		in the search and replace prompts, multibuffer status is
		now displayed and can be toggled from the insert file
		menu, and some wrapping behavior that changed in 1.1.10
		has reverted.  The --enable-color warning was also made
		less severe, as the color syntax code has improved, and
		nano now uses extended regexes in the .nanorc file.
			Also included are fixes for various memory
		leaks, the operating directory option, username tab
		completion, the page_up and down arrow, go to previous
		word and next word, nanorc parser and line wrapping
		code.  Have fun!

2002.07.25 - At long last!  GNU nano 1.1.10 "What didn't we break?" is
		released.  This version of GNU nano features version
		0.11.2 of gettext, building with automake 1.6, some new
		code for displaying control characters, browser
		improvements, a new backup file option (-B, --backup), a
		new option to ignore rc files (-I, --ignorercfiles),
		compatibility with -pedantic, handling null characters
		before EOF, a slightly sportier nanorc.sample and more.
			Fixes are included for justification,
		the reading and writing file routines, resizing and fill
		length, millions of memory leaks, the usage screen was
		updated, and the --quotestr and --regexp really work
		now ;-)  Enjoy :)

2002.05.12 - GNU nano 1.1.9 is released, happy Mother's Day!  This
		release includes many new features, including a prepend
		mode (^O,M-P), a new "syntax" command in the .nanorc to
		allow multiple syntax highlighting types, and a new -Y,
		--syntax flag to set a specific one if there's no
		filename regex to match it against (i.e. w/mutt).  The
		^space and M-space keys will now show up in the help
		menu, which itself has been tweaked a bit, and many more
		configure options should now cooperate (like the odd
		pairing of --enable-tiny and --enable-multibuffer).  The
		marker should now work when using multiple buffers, and
		the huge memory leak in color syntax highlighting has
		been fixed.  A lot of new stuff for everyone's favorite
		text editor ;)  Have fun!

2002.03.30 - GNU nano 1.1.8 is released.  New features include an
		"Insert Output of External Command", ^R^X, and a .spec
		file is now included in the distribution.  There are
		cleanups in the usage code, fixes for regex parsing, the
		file browser, the NO_CONVERT auto-detect, indented
		justification, the internal spell checker, and a serious
		bug where reading a file of 0 lines would hang nano.
		Also, the "show position" code now shows the starting
		column as 1 instead of 0.  Have fun!

2002.03.05 - GNU nano 1.1.7 "let's change everything and see what breaks"
		is released.  New features include the new flags
		-N, --noconvert (to stop any file format conversion) and
		-Q, --quotestr (for the new quoted text justification),
		a new tempnam() implementation to avoid silly warnings,
		DOS and Mac file options in the Write File dialog,
		multiple save files (file.1) for abnormal exits,
		^C now showing column as well as character position, and
		multibuffer allowing duplicate files, even unnamed ones.
		Also, the static shortcut and toggle lengths are history,
		nano now reads SYSCONFDIR/nanorc if rc file support is
		enabled, and nano is now built with (and for rebuilding
		requires) autoconf 2.5.
			This release also includes fixes for some memory
		leaks, detecting DOS and Mac file format, justification,
		suspending keys, search & replace under various
		conditions, variable width for shortcuts, and the usual
		ton of translation updates.

2002.01.25 - GNU nano 1.1.6 is released.  Lots of new features in this
		release.  New Meta-keys were added as alternates for
		control sequences: Meta-A for the marker key (^^), and
		Meta-G for the 'goto dir' key in the file browser (^_).
		The color syntax highlighting now supports multiple
		lines via start="regex" end="regex" syntax, and the
		.nanorc regex format itself has changed.  Also, the
		gettext code was upgraded to version 0.10.40, and nano
		will now display a message if only occurrence of a given
		search exists.
			For bugfixes, there are fixes for spelling,
		stray newlines in the usage() function, suspend issues
		with tcsh, auto-indent and wrapping clashes, ugly code
		in rcfile.c, global variable compatibility with AIX.
		There are also oodles of translation updates.  Have fun
		with it.

2002.01.05 - GNU nano 1.1.5 is out.  The main new feature in this
		release is the changed behavior of the keypad.  Nano now
		does the Right Thing and used keypad() by default.  If
		you wish to use the keypad arrow keys in certain
		terminals, you may use the -K or --keypad flag to use
		the old behavior.  Users of other OSes should see better
		handling of their non-keypad keys in this release.
		Other changes include more Hurd fixes, fixes parsing
		the .nanorc, display fixes for the color syntax
		highlighting, gettext stabilization and many translation
		updates.  This is almost like a stable release, much
		like in the 0.9.x series when every other release was
		the most stable one :)  Have fun!

2001.12.11 - GNU nano 1.1.4 is released.  This release contains
		rudimentary color syntax support (but it's still
		broken), compatibility fixes for the Hurd and FreeBSD,
		spell checker and wrapping fixes, and more.  It seems
		that the amount of interest in the code is inversely
		proportional to the amount of time since last release,
		so it's time to show the world all the changes since
		1.1.3 ;)  Have fun with it!

2001.10.26 - GNU nano 1.1.3 is released.  As far as new features go,
		the help system is now available for all functions in
		the editor.  Also, nano will also now print a message on
		the status bar when it automatically converts a file
		from Mac or DOS format, and trying to load a file that
		has already been loaded in multibuffer mode will now
		also cause an error message.  There is now a "goto
		previous word" which you can use by hitting Meta-Space
		Bar.
			As for fixes, a SEVERE bug in the null_at code
		which discarded the memory address of reallocated memory
		has been fixed.  This is probably the biggest bug fix in
		well over the last year of development.  There are also
		some display fixes for when the screen shouldn't center
		itself on cut or uncut text.  Also, the comments in the
		header files incorrectly said that nano was distributed
		under version 1 of the GPL when the accompanying license
		was the GPLv2.
			If you're using nano-1.1, it is highly
		recommended you upgrade to this release.  If using 1.0,
		wait for version 1.0.6 which should be available early
		next week.  Enjoy!

2001.10.03 - GNU nano 1.1.2 is out there.  Many new features in this
		release, including support for auto-converting from DOS
		and Mac formatted files, as well as toggles for writing
		out files in these formats.  Pico's -o flag has been
		implemented, as has some new smooth scrolling code
		(which can be used in place of the default jerky
		scrolling behavior).  Also, there is now a "find
		matching bracket/brace/etc" feature (Meta-]).  The
		.nanorc file now accepts setting the tabsize, and the
		help text at the bottom of the editor is now better
		spaced out in the search/replace prompts.  There are
		also the usual helping of bugfixes, translation updates
		and, surely a bug or two.  You better get ready!

2001.07.28 - GNU nano 1.1.1 is released.  Our second 1.1 unstable
		release features many bugfixes from the initial release,
		in particular fixes for the multibuffer code, and
		various compiler macro fixes.  The shortcut lists for
		the search and replace prompts are a little more logical
		(with cancel the last option again), and the included
		gettext was re-downgraded to 0.10.35 due to problems on
		the PPC platform.  GNU nano now includes its own aclocal
		macros in the m4/ directory to allow rebuilding the
		configure script to work on platforms regardless of
		their gettext version.

2001.07.15 - GNU nano 1.1.0 is released.  This is the first release
		in the 1.1.x unstable series of GNU nano.  It
		incorporates all changes up to the 1.0.3 release, and
		also includes many many new features, including
		appending to as well as overwriting files, writing
		marked text to a separate file, dynamic wrap length,
		lots more compatibility with Pico, and new optional
		features like .nanorc file support and multiple file
		buffers!  All in all, plenty of new stuff that's sure to
		introduce lots of bugs ;-)  Have fun with it, but be
		careful, unstable means unstable.


2001.07.01 - GNU nano 1.0.3 is the "mutt" release.  This release
		features oodles of bug fixes with cutting text,
		especially with the -k (cut to end) option.  There is
		also a new suspend handler which should make nano play
		better with mutt (the code for which came from mutt
		itself; many many thanks to Jordi Mallach and Tom Lear
		for working late into the night fixing this).  Nano now
		also features mutt's case insensitive string compare
		function for more speed and less memory usage.  Two new
		translations are included, Ukrainian and Russian.

2001.05.12 - GNU nano 1.0.2 is the "just the bugfixes ma'am" release.
		The most noticeable fixes are for display errors using
		page up/down with the marker code, and view mode (-v)
		not stopping the replace function.  Other fixes include
		being able to use the arrow keys while holding down the
		ctrl key in certain TERMs, and there are many
		documentation updates and spelling tweaks.  We also have
		a new Galician translation (provided by Jacobo Tarrío).
		Have fun with it!

2001.04.06 - GNU nano 1.0.1 is out there.  The only new feature is a
		configure option for those who want to disable all word
		wrapping from nano, --disable-wrapping.  Bug fixes this
		release include some bugs with autoconf and i18n, and
		several fixes in the file browser including a segfault
		on Solaris, symlinks to directories now work properly,
		and nano now sorts files case insensitively like Pilot.
		Have fun with it.

2001.03.22 - GNU Nano 1.0 is released!  The autoindent wrapping bug
		has been fixed, as well as strange bug when using Pico
		mode and regex search.  There have also been some minor
		spelling and documentation updates.  As stated on the
		website, there are currently no known bugs with nano,
		but some will pop up eventually and they will be
		addressed in subsequent releases.  We hope you enjoy
		this first stable release of nano, and as always,
		feedback is welcome! nano@nano-editor.org.


2001.02.19 - Nano 0.9.99pre3 brings a lot of changes!  The most
		important being that nano is now officially a GNU
		program.  Some changes have been made for GNU
		compatibility (like the default list of shortcuts, "^G
		Get Help" is now listed and "^_ Goto Line" is not).  The
		Yes/No/All keys have finally been internationalized
		also.  All in all, quite a few changes, considering nano
		is supposed to be in a code freeze.  But there are the
		usual helping of bugfixes, a nasty bug when cutting text
		in -k mode and some compatibility issues with older
		ncurses libraries have also been fixed.  All in all, a
		lot to see.

2001.01.31 - Nano 0.9.99pre2 is released.  Not surprisingly, all that is
		new is bugfixes, bugfixes, bugfixes.  There were a few
		cleanups in unneeded global variables and duplicate
		functions, but most is just fixing.  Specifically, there
		is now a preliminary (read: needs testing) fix for
		resizing the editor in any mode other than normal edit
		mode.  Other fixes include some more tab completion
		segfaults, and an silly segfault that occurred when
		successfully writing a file on the 2nd try (i.e. after
		an initial write error).  Slowly but surely, on toward
		1.0 we travel.

2001.01.17 - Nano 0.9.99pre1 is released.  This is the first pre-1.0
		release of nano, and is also the first release since the
		code freeze for nano 1.0.  Don't expect (or request) any
		new features between now and nano 1.0, only bugfixes,
		optimizations and doc/translation updates.  For fixes, a
		nasty segfault when trying to insert one's home
		directory (~), some checks for the NumLock key making
		the keypad go awry, window size sanity checks, many
		autoconf fixes, and support for the KDE Konsole keypad
		layout.  Have fun.

2001.01.07 - Nano 0.9.25 is the "Just one more feature I swear!"
		release.  It includes one new feature that Pico has had
		forever, a built-in file browser.  Since not everyone
		may want this option, there is a --disable-browser
		option to the configure script as well.  Other changes
		include slightly different keypad handling, and a bugfix
		for crashes when tab completion in certain instances.
		Have fun and Happy New Year!

2000.12.18 - Nano 0.9.24 is released.  This version contains the last of
		the security fixes for writing files, as well as for a
		nasty segfault when nano is unable to open a file for
		reading, among other fixes.  Nano also now cowardly
		refuses to open device files, to stop silly things like
		trying to open /dev/zero.  New features include being
		Able to use Meta-Meta-<key> as Control-<key>, better
		HURD support, and some new flags have been added for
		Pico compatibility.  Upgrading to this version is highly
		recommended.

2000.12.08 - Nano 0.9.23 is the "race conditions bite" release.  The
		main reason for this release is the less-than-optimal
		fix for the security issue in nano with following
		symbolic links.  Hopefully this will fix the problem
		permanently.  The --nofollow option also works again for
		those who are real security nuts.  There are also some
		display and search fixes, and the --disable-spell
		function was renamed to --disable-speller to be in line
		with nano and Pico's "speller" term.

2000.12.02 - Nano 0.9.22 is released, with many more changes and
		additions than imaginable.  The most important change is
		a fix for unsafe handling of symbolic links which could
		lead to symlink attacks if nano were to exit because of
		an error or signal.  Also there are better checks when
		saving files.
		    As for new features, username tab completion is now
		working well, the internal spell checker code has been
		tweaked, you can now unjustify if you don't like how the
		justify formatted your text, and there are more options
		for configure, including --disable-spell and
		--disable-justify and --enable-extra (for those who like
		surprises).  All in all, a whole lot of changes in a
		little over a week.

2000.11.23 - Happy Thanksgiving!  Nano 0.9.21 is our "last version was
		a big turkey" release.  It fixes several bugs introduced
		by the previous version, as well as a few long- standing
		display bugs.  All 0.9.20 users are strongly encouraged
		to upgrade to this release.

2000.11.18 - Nano 0.9.20 is finally out the door.  Probably the biggest
		change is the brand new way nano displays previous
		search and replace strings (they are now editable!)
		This is a break from Pico's (inconsistent) interface, so
		if you don't like the new way, "Pico" mode (-p on the
		command line or Meta-P within nano) still works the
		"old" way.
		    Other new features include being able to deal with
		search strings of any length, a new internal spell
		feature (courtesy of Mr. Rocco Corsi) and tab completion
		when reading in or writing out files!  There's also the
		usual billion or so bug fixes.  Feedback on this release
		is welcome because so much has changed, especially with
		the previous string display in search and replace.
		Email -> nano@nano-editor.org <-.  If you like
		something, don't like something, or just want to order a
		pizza, let us know!

2000.10.02 - Nano 0.9.19 is the "Chris is getting married in less than
		a week and needs a distraction" release.  There are only
		a few actual code changes, mainly portability and
		compiler warning fixes.  Nano now also supports
		PDCurses, which enables easily-built nano executables
		for Windows NT and 95/98 for the brave.  The official
		nano site has changed (again) as well, check out
		www.nano-editor.org for all the latest nano schtuff.

2000.09.18 - Nano 0.9.18 is unleashed.  It has some new keyboard
		handling code, Cygwin support out of the box, and a more
		portable handler for the NOHELP toggle.  There is also a
		fix for a somewhat serious bug whereby trying to insert
		a directory instead of a normal file would destroy the
		contents of the editor.  A must-see.  Four stars.

2000.09.04 - Nano 0.9.17, the Labor Day release, is released after a
		quiet spell (almost an entire month since last release!)
		New features include better (not yet perfect) binary
		display support and toggle support for most of the
		program flags (M-c, M-i, M-z, M-x, M-p, M-w, M-m, M-k
		and M-e for -c, -i, -z, -x, -p, -w, -m, -k, and -R).

2000.08.09 - Nano 0.9.16, after some struggling, is released.  This
		release should fix a few of the holes that 0.9.15 dug.
		The "cutting text on the first line" bug is fixed, as is
		the "cutting text on the last line" bug.  Nice symmetry
		there huh?  Also the --tabsize argument should now work
		as well as by using -T.

2000.08.03 - Nano 0.9.15 is the "I can't think of a release description"
		release.  There are the usual gala of display bugfixes,
		a fix for the nasty bug in -k mode that could create
		a loop in the file being edited, and some other code
		cleanup.  Also, the -T option should now work regardless
		of the curses library used.  Yay.

2000.07.27 - Nano 0.9.14 is officially the "13 is so unlucky it should
		be skipped as a version number" release.  One typo
		caused unending problems (calling nano with either -t or
		-k caused both flags to be used).  The -k code is also
		now closer in functionality to Pico's -k mode; please
		note that this code is not finished yet.  Working on
		this code has made me realize that there is not enough
		abstraction in the code, and I will be working on that
		for the next release.  Until then, have fun with this
		version.

2000.07.23 - Nano 0.9.13 has a few new bits and bobs, most notably the
		-k option from Pico (cut to end of line).  The majority
		of changes in this release are bugfixes, however,
		including the usual display fixes and fixes for writing
		to symbolic links and unwritable files.  Barring any
		other major changes, this should be the feature set for
		nano 1.0, whenever it might be released =-)

2000.07.07 - Nano 0.9.12 (the "lucky day" release) is bursting with
		new features, bug fixes, and yummy fruit flavor.  For
		changes, the alternate replace keystroke ^W^T is now
		^W^R to be compatible with later versions of Pico.  ^W^T
		is now goto line, again for Pico compatibility.  As for
		new features, the wonderful/hated magic line code has
		returned with a vengeance!  Also, regular expression
		searches and replaces have been incorporated via the -R
		flag.  And, of course, there are the usual helping of
		display and other bug fixes to top it all off.

2000.06.20 - Nano 0.9.11 presents drastic rewrites of the most buggy
		routines in the program, specifically the wrapping code
		and almost all of the display routines.  There are many
		improvements and bugfixes to the display subsystem in
		general, but there may be bugs lurking yet.  Also, after
		many MANY requests, there is now an option to set the
		displayed tab width (-T, --tabsize).  Note that this
		function just changes the way tabs LOOK in the editor,
		the tabs you input are still real tabs of normal width
		(usually 8 characters); nano just makes them look
		smaller or bigger while in the editor.  New in the
		translation department is an Indonesian translation
		(id).

2000.06.06 - Nano 0.9.10 is primarily a bugfix for the loss of SIGINT
		when using "run and terminate" flags (for example,
		--help).  There are also some minor documentation
		updates.  This version of nano is the most stable in
		quite some time, and is likely to be the most stable for
		awhile.  Users are encouraged to upgrade to this
		version.

2000.05.31 - Nano 0.9.9 introduces much better working i18n support,
		more portability, and a ton of bugfixes.  While nano is
		not likely anywhere near 1.0 in terms of code quality,
		it gets a quantum leap closer with this release.

2000.05.18 - Nano 0.9.8 (the 'what broke now?' release) should fix
		the resize crash people have been experiencing.  It also
		offers a new input method that should allow nano to do
		things the right way (like ^S, ^Q, custom suspend keys)
		and hopefully won't break with non-US keyboards.  There
		are also the obligatory display fixes and speedups.
		Have fun with it.

2000.05.14 - Nano 0.9.7 (the Mother's Day release) continues in the long
		line of display fixes, and also fixes the broken symlink
		behavior (i.e. symlinks weren't being followed by
		default).  Hopefully all major bugs can be worked out
		soon and we can have a 1.0 release before the end of the
		year, but who knows.

2000.05.08 - Nano 0.9.6 cleans up a lot of the display bugs that 0.9.5
		uncovered.  There are improvements (and some remaining
		segfaults) in the wrapping code, and even more display
		optimizations.  I would still say 0.9.4 or 0.9.2 are the
		most stable versions of nano to date, but this one may
		not be too bad =-)

2000.05.01 - Nano 0.9.5 attempts to speed up the display of text
		to be at least somewhat reasonable.  Much code profiling
		has been done to reduce the ridiculous number of
		redundant display updates.  This will probably expose a
		lot of bugs that can then be fixed, so this release is
		probably not for the faint of heart.  For anyone
		curious, I would call nano 0.9.2 the most stable version
		recently, so use that if you're not particularly
		concerned with being on the bleeding edge.

2000.04.25 - Nano 0.9.4 fixes some problems in 0.9.3 with the last
		line code and related segfaults.  It also now has much
		better handling for 8-bit characters.  The --enable-tiny
		code also produces a smaller executable.

2000.04.19 - Nano 0.9.3 is officially the "Micro$oft" release.  It
		underscores the recent problem of bugfixes introducing
		more bugs than they fix.  The most important change to
		this version of nano is the removal of the "magic line".
		You will no longer see a blank line at the end of the
		file.  If you want a new line at the end of your file,
		you'll have to hit enter to get one.

		NOTE: THIS BREAKS COMPATIBILITY WITH PICO.
		Unfortunately, this feature has been causing many many
		problems with nano so it is being removed for the time
		being, and perhaps indefinitely.

		Other new stuff includes an --enable-tiny option to make
		nano ultra small (disabling i18n, detailed help and the
		marker and mouse code), and --with-slang to use the
		slang libraries instead of ncurses.

2000.04.15 - Nano 0.9.2 just fixes the serious segfault problem if
		nano is invoked any way other than using the absolute
		path.  The bug was in the new code for checking whether
		nano is invoked as 'pico'.

2000.04.14 - Nano 0.9.1 has some more Pico compatibility built-in.  The
		option to switch to/from Search and Search/Replace (^T)
		is now available, and nano now displays the more
		Pico-like shortcut list when invoked as 'pico' (i.e. if
		'pico' is a symlink to nano).  There is an important
		change to the handling of symbolic links as well.  Now,
		nano does the "correct" thing and automatically writes
		to the object of the symlink, rather than replace the
		symlink with the updated file.  This behavior is still
		available with the --nofollow or -l flags.
		    Other new things include a fix for the infamous
		"recursive replace" bug, and more bugfixes in the
		wrapping code.

2000.04.07 - Nano 0.9.0 has some updates, new language support and
		a much better refresh setup (It's still not great,
		but...)  There should also be more stability editing
		long lines, as there was a stupid mistake in the
		update_line call.  Silly me =)

2000.03.22 - Nano 0.8.9 is basically just a bugfix release of 0.8.8
		to reflect the current stagnant status of the project.
		Most things work, the rest doesn't doesn't work because
		(a) I can't fix it or I would have already done so, and
		(b) the amount of patches I'm receiving right now is
		quite negligible.  Fortunately, this release marks the
		first release since I have acquired ownership of the
		nano pages on SourceForge.  Here's hoping SF will get us
		some more visibility, translators and patches.

2000.03.12 - After a hiatus, I have finally moved (not unpacked though)
		to my new home into Albany.  Thus I should now have more
		time to work on nano.  Nano 0.8.8, the "dear god what
		broke this time?" release, incorporates patches for both
		i18n and many bugfixes.  It is VERY likely something
		broke this version, and it's likely I didn't even apply
		the i18n stuff properly, so *it* may not even work.

		I would like to announce that I'm going to need
		translations soonish, so if you are fluent in other
		languages than English (or even better, if your native
		language is not English) and you would like to submit a
		translation file to me, please feel free to do so.  If
		you do, I will list your name and email in the AUTHORS
		file as the maintainer of the .po file, and from then on
		it is yours to take care of and keep up to date.

2000.03.01 - Well, to continue my trend of going back on my previous
		release's comments, nano 0.8.7 is released.  The
		crashing behavior was still occurring, and this most
		recent fix also fixes some other wrapping problems, so
		here you go.  There may be another release soon, there
		may not be, is that vague enough? =)

2000.02.25 - More minor bugfixes in 0.8.6, the bizarre behavior at the
		end of a page has ceased, thankfully.  I'm also moving
		next weekend, so don't be shocked if you don't see a new
		version of nano next week  =-)

2000.02.11 - Okay, here we go again.  Aside from a few minor fixes and
		some under-the-hood changes, you won't notice much
		different in this version of nano.  I haven't gotten
		much feedback on the help feature, is it simply amazing
		or does no one care?  Write and let me know! =)

2000.02.08 - Nano 0.8.3 marks the first time in a long time that there
		has been more than three days since the last release.
		New features include an initial help mode (YAY!),
		hopefully much more support for i18n out of the box, and
		a flag for more Pico compatibility in the shortcut lists
		displayed.  This release also marks the new nano
		distribution site, http://www.asty.org/nano and email
		address nano@asty.org for bugs, etc.

2000.02.02 - Okay, I hate to go back on what I said in the last release,
		but I may be changing jobs very soon.  I will release
		version 0.8.2 as is (no i18n, no help menu (yet).  I
		expect things to settle down by the end of next week,
		and then I can try to start on the i18n support and help
		menu; look for these new features in version 0.8.5 to
		0.9.0.

2000.01.28 - Nano 0.8.1 marks our first official step toward
		internationalization (i18n) and the help system (^G).  I
		will be merging in Jordi's patches for initial i18n in
		the next version, and will implement the help system
		with i18n built into it shortly after that.  Please
		don't hesitate to send bug reports, as long as you're
		sure the fault lies with nano =-).

2000.01.25 - Nano 0.8.0 is officially the 'let's try and be at least a
		little portable, mmmmkay?' release.  There are many
		portability checks and fixes; many thanks to Andy Kahn
		for his patches.  I removed the broken do_spell behavior
		with the 'spell' program; for now, we only try to call
		'ispell' until I write a better method to handle the
		output of the normal 'spell' command.

2000.01.24 - Nano 0.7.9 features many new features.  Among them are a
		new autoindent feature (-i, --autoindent), tempfile flag
		like Pico's -t flag (-t, --tempfile), and preliminary
		spelling program support.  The spelling function tries
		to run 'spell' and then 'ispell' in that order, but you
		can specify another spelling program with -s or
		--speller.

2000.01.17 - Nano 0.7.7 is officially the 'way too much stuff changed this
		release' release.  It's the busy time at work for me, so
		please don't get offended if your patch doesn't get
		included in the next immediate version of nano.  I'm
		sure all the changes in this release will cause a few
		bugs, so 0.7.8 will primarily be about fixing those
		bugs.

		Things added this release include resizability (kinda),
		new -x and -c flags (see nano -h for help), long command
		line flag support, and the usual array of bugfixes.

2000.01.15 - Nano 0.7.6 is officially the 'lightning' release.  It now
		loads large files much faster than previous versions,
		and is even much faster than Pico or vi in some rather
		rudimentary tests.  Many thanks to Adam Rogoyski for the
		read_byte patch!

2000.01.09 - As of this version (0.7.4), TIP has officially been renamed
		to nano.  The new homepage is at
		http://faculty.plattsburgh.edu/astyanax/nano.  Please
		update your bookmarks, tell your friends, and all that
		jazz.
