Template: pptpd/localip
Type: string
_Description: Local IP address of the virtual connections
 Specify the local IP address for the virtual connections.
 .
 Please note that any address works as long as the local machine takes care
 of the routing. But if you want to use MS-Windows networking, you should
 use an IP address out of the LAN address space.
 .
 You can give only one address or you can give multiple addresses if you
 want to, although they are really not needed. Multiple addresses can be
 given as either "10.0.0.1,10.0.0.2,10.0.0.3" or "10.0.0.1-3". No spaces
 should be used between commas or within addresses.

Template: pptpd/remoteip
Type: string
_Description: A list of remote IP addresses for the virtual connections.
 Specify the remote IP addresses for the virtual connections.
 .
 Please note that any addresses work as long as the local machine takes
 care of the routing. But if you want to use MS-Windows networking, you
 should use IP addresses out of the LAN address space.
 .
 You have to give one address for every concurrent connection. This will
 depend on how many clients you expect to be online at the same time.
 Multiple addresses can be given as either "10.0.0.1,10.0.0.2,10.0.0.3" or
 "10.0.0.1-3". No spaces should be used between commas or within addresses.

Template: pptpd/netmask
Type: string
_Description: Netmask used for virtual connections.
 If you use IP addresses from the LAN address space, please use the same
 netmask as on your LAN.

Template: pptpd/wins
Type: string
_Description: IP address of your WINS server.
 A WINS server is used for browsing available Computers in MS-Windows
 networking. This address is transmitted to the clients,

Template: pptpd/dns
Type: string
_Description: IP address of your DNS server.
 This address is transmitted to the clients.

Template: pptpd/mppe
Type: boolean
Default: true
_Description: Do you want to use MPPE data encryption ?
 The recommended way is to use the data encryption as it is one of the main
 benefits of a VPN. When you want to use MPPE (Microsoft Point-to-Point
 Encryption), you also  have to use CHAPMSv2 for authentication. . Note
 that you have to install the modified ppp packages if you want to use this
 data encryption.

Template: pptpd/no-mppe
Type: note
_Description: Warning: data encryption is disabled.
 All data transferred between the local network and the client will be
 transmitted without encryption ! This is a security hole.
 .
 You have been warned. Now you loose your product warranty :)

Template: pptpd/authentication
Type: select
_Choices: pap, chap, chapms, chapms-v2
Default: chap
_Description: Which authentication method do you want to use ?
 Possible authentication methods are: - PAP - CHAP - CHAP with Microsoft
 extensions - CHAP with Microsoft extensions v2
 .
 The recommended authentication method is one of the CHAP methods. However,
 you have to use a separate database (/etc/ppp/chap-secrets) if you want to
 use these. If you use PAP, you can use the standard system passwords when
 the ppp-pam package is installed.
